Now that you are able to build,
run and test the project starter code,
let's have a closer look at the structure of the code and classes you'll be working with.
Much of the project starter code came from
an OpenStreetMap demonstration of the lO2D graphics rendering library.
C++ doesn't currently have 2D graphics
rendering functionality as part of the standard library,
and IO2D has been proposed as an addition to the standard library.
This project extends the IO2D OpenStreetMap demo to render a path between two points.
Much like the code you were previously for ASCII A star,
the main function starts out by reading the map data into the program.
After reading the data into the program,
main creates a route model object with the data.
The route model class is a data structure that holds all of
the OpenStreetMap data in
a convenient format and provide some methods for using the data.
The route model class has a subclass called node which is used frequently.
A node represents a single point in the map data.
Note that route model provides the method find closest node.
When you provide a starting point or ending point to the program,
the find closest node method will find
the closest node in the store data to the coordinates that you provide.
The node class provides two methods, FindNeighbors and distance.
The FindNeighbors method can be used when you want to
find the neighbors of the current node to add to the open list,
and the distance method provides the distance between two nodes.
This can be used when you want to compute the cost to travel to the next node,
or when you want to compute the heuristic function
as the distance between the current node and the goal.
After main has created a route model,
it will create a route planner object.
The route planner class provides all of the methods needed to conduct
the AStarSearch and this is the class where you will be writing almost all of your code.
In particular, the route planner class
contains an AStarSearch method which is called by main.
Just as you saw in your ASCII A star project,
the AStarSearch method starts the wild loop that
continues as long as the list of open nodes is non-empty.
Inside the wild loop,
the next node method is called.
This method sorts the open list and provides the next node to explore.
In the wild loop, the code will then check if the next note is the goal.
If the goal has been found,
the construct a final path method is called.
This method creates a vector of nodes in the path from the beginning
node to the end node and this vector can be used to render the final path.
If the goal has not been found,
the AddNeighbors method will be called.
Just as with ASCII A star,
this method has several steps.
So let's examine them in more detail.
AddNeighbors will start by calling FindNeighbors on the current node.
Each node object is created with an empty vector of neighbor nodes,
and FindNeighbors will populate
the neighbors vector of the current node with all of the valid neighbors.
For each neighbor of the current node,
the parent of that neighbor is set to the current node.
So in the diagram over here,
we can see that the current node is green,
the neighbor node is blue,
and the parents of this blue node is the green node.
Keeping track of the parent of each node,
allows the path to be reconstructed once we reach the end.
That is, if we get to the ending node in our search,
we can just step through the parent of
each node to find the sequence of nodes from the beginning to the end.
After setting the parent,
the g value of the neighbor is set to
the current g value plus the distance from the current node to the neighbor.
Nodes have different distances between them and we want to
record a greater cost to travel longer distances between nodes.
This helps to choose the shortest next step when presented with several options.
At this point in the program,
the h value of the neighboring node is also set using the CalculateHValue method.
Finally, the neighbor is added to
the open list and then the neighbor is also marked as visited.
Back in our original diagram,
we can add all of these steps to complete
the AStarSearch function in the route planner class.
Once AStarSearch completes execution,
main will create a render object and render the map with the results from AStarSearch.
This completes the high level picture of how the code will work in this project.
Next, we'll dive into the source files to examine the code in more detail.
Some of the structure here should seem familiar from the ASCII A star code.
But in this project, you'll have the additional challenge of the code being
structured using object oriented techniques. Good luck.